---
title: CTE (Appendix A)
parent: Automation with KSCTL
nav_order: 9
---

# Appendix A — CipherTrust Transparent Encryption
{: .no_toc }

## On this page
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## A.1 — CTE Admin

If separation of duties is required for the CTE administrator, create a separate
CTE admin account and assign it to the **CTE Admins** group.

```bash
ksctl users create -n cteadmin -p Thales123! -e cteadmin@thales.lab | jq .user_id
```

If you need to look up the user ID for an existing user:

```bash
ksctl users list | jq -r '.resources[] | select(.name == "cteadmin") | .user_id'
```

{: .note }
> Be careful with shell quote escaping requirements in Windows. In PowerShell,
> use triple quotes `"""`. In cmd.exe, use a backslash `\"`.

Now, add the user to the **CTE Admins** group:

```bash
ksctl groups adduser -n "CTE Admins" -u "local|c4b13478-4dc8-47ed-b119-20a454bcf883"
```

## A.2 — Client Profile

The client profile defines client logging and LDT quality-of-service settings.
As of CTE 7.3 (Q4 2022), multi-factor-authentication connections for CTE
guardpoints may also be set here.

{: .note }
> Due to the complexity of this command, it will be broken up here for
> readability. However, all settings may be set with the
> `ksctl cte profiles create` command if desired.

First, create the profile and save the profile ID:

```bash
ksctl cte profiles create --cte-profile-name standard-client-profile --cte-profile-description "Standard CTE client profile" | jq -r .id
```

### Client Logging Configuration

Next, we'll set the client log settings. These are the logs generated on the CTE
client and stored in the local log file. We'll be using JSON files to avoid the
quote escaping issues with JSON strings.

`cte-log-file.json`

```json
{
    "allow_purge": false,
    "max_old_files": 50,
    "max_file_size": 1000000,
    "file_threshold": "ERROR"
}
```

Set the client-side file properties:

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --file-settings-json-file cte-log-file.json
```

Or, if you just want to change a single option such as **Max Old Files**:

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --file-settings-json '{"max_old_files": 50 }'
```

Or **Allow Purge**:

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --file-settings-json '{"allow_purge": true }'
```

{: .tip }
> **Best Practice:**
> - Set **Allow Purge** so that old log files get removed from the disk.
>   Otherwise, rotated logs will continue to accumulate.
> - Client logs should be forwarded to a log aggregator or SIEM.

### Upload Client Records to CipherTrust Appliance

Next, we may want to enable client record uploads to the CipherTrust appliance.

{: .warning }
> In a large enterprise environment, best practice is to send client logs
> directly to a local log aggregator or SIEM solution to avoid flooding
> CipherTrust nodes with log traffic. Increasing the log level to **INFO** or
> setting **LEARN MODE** on a CTE policy will also greatly increase log traffic.

**Step 1: Enable Upload to Server for each client event type:**

System Admin Logger:

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --system-admin-logger-json '{ "upload_enabled": true }'
```

Security Admin Logger:

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --security-admin-logger-json '{ "upload_enabled": true }'
```

Policy Evaluation Logger (this logs CTE policy rule evaluation and is the primary
information you want to collect):

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --policy-evaluation-logger-json '{ "upload_enabled": true }'
```

Management Service Logger:

{: .warning }
> As of `ksctl` version 2.9.0.8169, there is a typo that requires using the
> misspelled option `--management-serivce-logger-json`. A bug report has been
> filed and the issue will be fixed in a future release.

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --management-serivce-logger-json '{ "upload_enabled": true }'
```

{: .note }
> The web UI will only show **Log Upload to Key Manager** as checked if all
> client event loggers are set to upload logs to the server.

**Step 2: Set log upload settings:**

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --upload-settings-json '{ "drop_if_busy": true, "upload_threshold": "INFO" }'
```

### Enable Concise Logging

Concise Logging can eliminate repetitive and unimportant audit messages
generated by read and write activities on a file, read and write directory
attributes, and other file system activities.

{: .note }
> **Concise Logging Documentation:**
> <https://thalesdocs.com/ctp/cm/2.9/admin/cte_ag/profiles/index.html#concise-logging>

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --concise-logging true
```

### Suppress Duplicates

File access generates many duplicate log events for what appears to be a single
I/O operation. Suppressing duplicates can reduce the load from excessive logging
and make finding important log events easier.

Enable Concise Logging:

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --concise-logging true
```

Set Duplicates Thresholds:

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --duplicate-settings-json '{ "suppress_threshold": 3, "suppress_interval": 300 }'
```

### Enable Client Syslog

There are two syslog models:

1. Upload client logs to the CipherTrust server and send all logs via a log
   forwarder from the appliance.
2. Configure regional or datacenter specific client profiles and have clients
   forward client records to a log aggregator or SIEM solution that's
   appropriate for the region.

{: .note }
> Syslog upload is configured per CTE logger. To enable all CTE logs to upload
> directly from the client via syslog, you must configure each of:
> - Management Service Logger
> - System Admin Logger
> - Security Admin Logger
> - Policy Evaluation Logger

Here, we will configure only the Policy Evaluation Logger to send logs to a
syslog server such as Splunk. Again, note that the **Syslog Enabled** checkbox in
the CTE profile web UI will now show as checked unless all loggers are configured
to upload via syslog.

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --policy-evaluation-logger-json '{ "syslog_enabled": true }'
```

Next, we'll set the syslog server information. In this case, we'll pass it in a
JSON file.

`cte-syslog.json`

```json
{
    "local": false,
    "servers": [
        {
            "name": "splunk.thales.lab",
            "port": 514,
            "protocol": "UDP",
            "message_format": "RFC5424"
        }
    ],
    "syslog_threshold": "ERROR"
}
```

```bash
ksctl cte profiles modify --cte-profile-identifier f53ec896-7d1c-4b46-b4d9-ce8af8725982 --syslog-settings-json-file cte-syslog.json
```

{: .tip }
> **Best Practice:**
> - Configure regional or datacenter specific client logging profiles so that
>   CTE clients send logs directly to a local logging server.
> - Disable **Log Upload to Key Manager** to avoid flooding CipherTrust nodes
>   with logging traffic.
> - A more advanced configuration is to send policy evaluation logs to local
>   syslog while still uploading CTE management, system, and client security
>   events to the CipherTrust node.
